speech by commander Fidel Castro first
secretary of the United Party of the
socialist revolution and prime minister
of the revolutionary government in the
memorial ceremony of November 27th held
at the stairway of the University of
Havana November 27th 1963 Department of
stenographic versions of the
revolutionary government students days
ago while on an almost customer visit to
the University of Havana I thought as I
was talking to a group of students that
this November 27th would be a good
opportunity to address from this
university grand stand a number of
issues of interest to our country of
interest to our economy and of interest
to you but then a series of event took
place or better set a single
international event of great importance
and above all one very revealing of the
state of decomposition of the
imperialist society an event which may
our people shift their attention towards
the analysis of this event and give due
attention to such event afterwards and
due to different reasons precisely
yesterday we had a meeting with high
school students on that occasion some of
the issues that we had planned to deal
with here today were brought up before
those students with this I mean to tell
you that this November 27th has come
about not with the characteristics we
would have liked meaning without other
problems that were not purely technical
problems academic problems things
related to student and learning that is
why it seems to me I sense that in no
way I will be very satisfied because I
thought that this was going to be the
day on which to address a number of
issues related to the economy to
education to a lot of things but about
this other issue we have to say
something nonetheless
I mean the topic of which we would have
preferred not to talk about here I will
refer as briefly as possible to the
matter of the murder of the President of
the United States events have been
taking place which are gradually
exposing the whole maneuver the dirty
unconscionable operation behind it it is
plot against peace a sinister conspiracy
that is increasingly clear in the
imagination as are those responsible for
that event every day the public opinion
around the world receives more and more
evidence that lays bare that completely
unmask the maneuver that was woven
against the world and as a part of that
world especially against our country
there are a whole series of strange
things that becomes stranger by the day
things that every day weaken the
fabrications and insinuations that were
made after Kennedy's death there have
been a whole series of events about
which the world has begun to think about
which everyone has started to think and
the more they think about them the less
they make sense today for example a
shooting champion who can be called a
shooting specialist an Olympic shooting
champion I believe his name is Hubert
hammer declared in Vienna that it is
improbable that a shooter equipped with
a repeating rifle with a telescopic
sight can hit the mark three times in a
row in a time span of five seconds while
shooting at a target 180 meters away
that moves at a speed of 15 km/h quite a
number of details are starting to emerge
while we were reading this news cable we
remembered some experiences on these
issues especially on issues regarding
rifles with telescopic sights when we
landed in Cuba we had half a hundred
rifles with telescopic sights and we had
prepared them very well we have
practiced a lot with those rifles we
know perfectly well all the features of
such a
because we had rifles of different
capacities and one of the difficulties
of a rifle with telescopic sight is that
once you start to shoot at a target the
target gets out of focus as a result of
the shot just as a result of the shot so
it is necessary to find it again quickly
especially when you have to work the
bolt again at the beginning we were told
that an automatic rifle had been used
then we were told that it was not
automatic or semi-automatic but a
bolt-action rifle with that kind of
weapon it is really difficult to do
three consecutive shots but above all it
is difficult to hit the target almost
impossible we remembered certain student
competitions which are held in different
countries for example in Mexico there is
an amateur shooting competition in which
a lab is set loose at a given point and
it runs through the hills I think it
runs over a distance of 200 meters and
as it runs three shots are allowed the
best shooters with sufficient times on
their hands and with total calm very
rarely hit the target twice as the
animal runs the distance and only in
exceptional situations did they hit it
three times and this is with a lot of
time at their disposal an absolute calm
absolute tranquility and in most cases
this is not done with telescopic sight
rifles but with the so called lineman
sight rifle which is the one used for
the American garand rifles these are
shooting rifles with a small circle in
the sight in whose centre the target is
locked in order to shoot quickly it is
better to use one of those rifles than
to use one with telescopic sight because
you don't lose sight of the target but
the news cables talked about a rifle
with assume of four times to 18 times
meaning a rifle that gets very close to
the target
and the more powerful the site the more
sensitive it is to any movement and the
easier it is to lose target there is
furthermore the circumstance and
everything seems to indicate that the
rifle could have appeared there as a
part of the plot that the rifle was left
there since it is not the kind of weapon
used to shoot at a target 80 metres away
nor a weapon to shoot three times in a
row the telescopic sight rifle is a
weapon to shoot at a target 300 400 500
600 meters away and even more many of
the fellows who came in the grandma
practiced shooting at a diner plate 600
meters away with a rifle rest not one
held by hand
that is how a sniper uses a rifle to
shoot from afar it is really weird that
whoever was planning an assault at 80
meters from a window at quiet a rifle
with telescopic sight when any other
kind of weapon without a telescopic
sight would have been a lot more
appropriate for a shot from that
distance that is just one of the strange
circumstances that are gradually arising
another fact that got my attention is
that the rifle was bought by mail for
twelve twenty eight dollars or twelve
seventy eight dollars or something like
that
meaning twelve dollars and a good side
like that one on its own cost twelve
dollars and more where in the world are
high-powered rifles with telescopic
sights sold through a catalogue at
twelve twenty eight or twelve seventy
eight dollars we bought a few of those
rifles and we know how much they are
worth we had the need to buy several
sites and we know how much they cost
that was another strange fact a number
of really weird things are piling up
supposedly the individual acquire a
telescopic sight rifle to shoot from a
safe distance and to shoot at a
stationary target nah
and moving one when shooting and a
moving target the telescopic sight is
more of an obstruction such a weapon is
used to shoot from a distance and a
clear target which means that the
individual who had tried to use a
telescopic sight what I've done so
looking for both a clear shot and for
safety for himself but in this case
against a moving target 80 metres away
he was not getting a clear shot nor
funnily enough a shot far enough away to
make himself safe it is very strange and
what is really clear out of all of this
is that he was not a fanatic in my
opinion in these situations you always
have to rely on opinions on assumptions
but it is undeniable in the first place
that a fanatic probably it would be the
first time in the history in which a
fanatic used a telescopic sight the
first time in history fanatics have used
handguns
pistols and bombs but never a telescopic
sight furthermore fanatics in general do
not operate from a window in a fifth
floor
in general a fanatic confesses his crime
immediately and explains what he
committed it that is the normal
psychology of a fanatic but here we have
the strange case in which the suspect
the alleged murderer took the shot from
his own workplace no one who had a plan
to escape I mean not a fanatic but
someone who was hired to do the shooting
would execute the attack from his own
workplace in which in five minutes he
will be identified and wearing five
minutes he will be ferociously pursued
everywhere it would have looked for a
roof in another building it would have
rented an apartment along the route it
would have positioned himself with a
telescopic rifle at such a distance that
would have allowed him to escape but it
is very strange that an individual would
shoot from where he works a place where
he will be identified in five minutes
who would carry out an act with such
huge implications and from such an
obvious location but at the same time
try to escape it is not logical it makes
no sense
there are a number of strange
circumstances like that one someone
using that kind of rifle from that place
and trying to escape knowing that he
would have been identified right away
all those things are contradictory
illogical and inexplicable and they
prove that either the culprit was framed
or that the author of this crime let me
say this here there are two
possibilities either this individual is
innocent and he framed by the police or
he is the one who shot the president but
in that case his actions are very
difficult to logically explain this is
an individual who commits murder thinks
of escaping but at the same time knows
that he will unquestionably be
identified as the author of the crime
that could only have one explanation
this is an individual who had been
perfectly prepared to commit the crime
who has been given the promise of an
escape someone who was assigned a number
of activities which were meant to
compromise him someone upon whom the
real authors of the crime are very
interested in seeing that all of the
blame for the act is drop upon him now
we have obtained new data information
from the Mexican newspaper excelsior
stating that this man had visited the
consulates of Cuba and of the Soviet
Union to obtain a transit visa through
Cuba toward the Soviet Union we
immediately inquired with our consular
officers the newspapers version very
objective explained how the individual
had left a consulate upset slamming the
door because he had not been given the
visa we requested information and we
verified that on September 27th he had
indeed visited our consulate in Mexico
he
requested a visa he had been explained
to him that such a visa could not be
granted by the council without Express
authorization from the Minister of
Foreign Affairs who in turn did not
grant transit visas without the country
of destination issuing a visa first
besides our consular offices received a
lot of transit visa requests from a lot
of people and our officers are usually
very cautious very conservative because
we have to presume that the enemy is
constantly trying to send his agents in
here and that is why a lot of safety
measures are implemented a visa is not
granted to just anyone who requests it
we need to know their background very
well that is why our officer rejected
his application now the following day
Saturday evening only 24 hours after
Kennedy's death agents of the Mexican
Federal Police arrested an employee of
our consulate she has Mexican
citizenship and her husband as well why
and what did they arrest her for they
arrested her to interrogate her they
interrogated her brutally they
mistreated her suggesting alleged
connections with the individual accused
of murdering Kennedy the police were
trying to obtain by means of coercion
some information we did not know about
that
I ignore the fact when I last spoke I
understand it happened on Saturday
evening but this is proof of how
everything is surfacing
the police officers claimed that she had
been interrogated as a result of the
visit of this man Oswald to the Cuban
consulate how do they know who told them
where did the information come from
because we didn't know it was an
everyday thing no one in the consulate
not one officer had identified the
individual as the suspect out of all the
individuals the hundreds of individuals
who had failed a request for a visa but
the American police knew the Dallas
police reported it how did they know why
did they report it when dad not been
reported by the media yet when it only
appeared in a Mexican newspaper two or
three days later the threat can't be
seen clearly what was this man doing at
the Cuban consulate in Mexico what was
his excuse to request a transit visa
when in order to travel to the Soviet
Union he could have gone through England
which was closer and would have been
easier he could have gone through France
through many European countries why did
he go to Mexico to make a longer trip
requesting a transit visa to the Soviet
Union through Cuba hypothetically if
this man is the true murderer it would
be clear that the intellectual authors
of the murder had been preparing his
alibi carefully they send this
individual to request a Cuban visa just
imagine just imagine that mr. Kennedy
had been murdered by an individual whose
identity and workplace were perfectly
known who had been in the Soviet Union
and that the President of the United
States had been murdered by an
individual who had just come back from
the Soviet Union
traveling through Cuba it was the ideal
alibi
the ideal circumstance to cause American
public opinion to suspect that he was a
communist or an agent as they would
actually say of Cuba and the Soviet
Union it is very strange that someone
who had already been to the Soviet Union
and when he was there for the first time
he didn't travel through Cuba and had
been given a US passport easily if he
had the resources to go to Mexico why
did he have to come to Cuba if not for
the sole purpose of leaving a trail of
developing the plot why did he get upset
when he did not get the visa why did he
slam the door why did he leave no friend
of Cuba
no communists does that when they visit
our consular offices no one behaves in
such a rude way of course we do not have
this individuals full record we do not
have any detail other than the ones
published by the media
we will never state categorically that
someone is guilty of a crime if we do
not have irrefutable evidence of it but
as a hypothesis if this man is the one
who shot the president
then his trip to Mexico his allergy
interview with reporters presenting
himself as a defender of Cuba just a
short time before the event his allergy
fistfight with a counter revolutionary
element all of that would be part of a
perfectly crafted alibi one this is
scene the plan becomes perfectly
explainable this is someone who has
offered an escape plan and agreed to do
the shooting he would leave a trail he
would be identified then he would
disappear they would say he came to Cuba
and that Cuba sheltered him maybe his
accomplices would make him disappear
later but they would make people believe
he had come to Cuba that he had been in
Cuba before the murder took place it
looks as if he was guilty and he tried
to escape but when he ends up arrested
he smiled at the TV cameras he doesn't
confess as anything he doesn't deny
anything he does not agree to go through
a lie detector and then gentlemen the
most extraordinary the most unbelievable
thing occurs the thing that strengthened
the suspicion that everybody has today
barely 36 hours later 48 hours later in
the basement of the jail surrounded by
police officers he is murdered he would
never say another word
who why again sir a gambler
the owner of a nightclub with nudity and
all known to be a playboy a goon he
manages to position himself in front of
the suspect
murderer an individual known to the
whole police department for what he was
a gambler as the owner of amoral
nightclubs as someone who was arrested
by those same police he'll then can the
same police force then mistake him for a
news reporter given that all those
officers knew him perfectly well how can
he be there impersonating a journalist
and shoot the suspect just like that and
what does he claim afterwards the most
ridiculous and the most absurd thing
this gambler this vicious man this
gangster with a criminal record he
declares that he did what he did to
prevent the president's Widow from
having to go back to Dallas for the
trial it was very difficult to make
anyone believe that an act of such a
nature would be carried out in vengeance
as revenge against a criminal if he were
indeed the criminal when the electric
chair was already waiting for him how
are we to believe that in these
circumstances someone would have wanted
to take justice into their own hands
this case has occurred only when there
is no justice when the criminal is not
punished but in this case he killed a
man for whom the electric chair was
waiting in fact he killed at that man
that's what this cancer did how could
they ask anyone to believe that he was
acting out of emotional reasons there
might have never been a bigger scandal
possibly not even the worst gangster
ever acted as vulgar ly as slowly as
outrageously this demonstrates that
those responsible for Kennedy's death
desperately needed to eliminate the
suspect at all cost
they were extremely pressed for some
reason possibly for him not to talk they
were in a hurry to eliminate him and
they eliminated him just like that
once the suspected murderer had been
removed police and judicial authorities
in Dallas declared the case
closed as if it had been not the murder
of the President of the United States
but a dog killed on the road they
declared the case closed
48 hours later the case was closed when
it was becoming less closable when it
was becoming more mysterious becoming
more suspicious becoming more
investigated official and criminal
standpoint I am sure that no objective
judge closes a case under circumstances
like this in a case in which the main
suspect is murdered of course we
carefully read the news cables where the
second murder was reported and
especially those of the UPI immediately
afterwards UPI I used the same emphasis
he had used while presenting Oswald as a
filler communist as a cancer communist
as an admirer of Castro they used the
same emphasis when percent in this man
Jack Ruby as a great admirer of Kennedy
the first thing the UPI does is to
present the version it was interesting
to present this as a case of a murder of
passion of sentimentalism as a murder of
pratt wrote ism
what a disservice would be UPI do to
whoever was president of its country
presenting this gangster this gambler
this immoral and vicious man as an
admirer of Kennedy and as such an
extraordinary admirer that he would have
been willing to face the electric chair
in order to avenge his death an
individual that throughout all his life
did nothing but profit from Vice gamble
and immorality what's the purpose of
such incredible moral flattery for a
depraved degenerated individual was the
purpose of such altruistic sentiment the
UPI in its first cables tried to give
the impression of Ruby as an admirer of
Kennedy they interrogated the sister and
she say he could not sleep since the
president had been murdered they
interrogated the sister
this mr. ruby to further elaborate the
theory that he had acted out of
emotional and sentimental reasons the
UPI didn't hesitate to voice such an
admirer to the assassinated President of
the United States what a lack of
scruples what this honesty what a
scandal with the same emphasis they put
in presenting Oswald as an admirer of
Castro they put immediately into percent
in Ruby as an admirer of Kennedy that is
how imperil ism works
that is how reaction works and that is
how they fabricate their campaigns and
their lies but everything seems to
indicate that this second shooting came
with some blowback and thus later news
came by quote the doctors who treated
the assassinated American leader report
now they cannot assure whether it was
one or two bullets that ended the
president's life and that they cannot
establish which were the entrances and
which were the exits of the projectile
or protect Isles
end quote governor Connally in an
interview he gave to the news reporters
from his bed in the hospital among other
things said quote what happened in
Dallas was the manifestation of the
hatred that prevails in our society
the same hatred that was manifested when
a bomb was placed in the Birmingham
church that led to the death of five
kids and quote this was said by the
other man who was shot while riding next
to Kennedy and so it will be very
difficult to continue dressing this doll
up it will be very difficult to maintain
this story they have been telling we
even think that it is difficult to
imagine that there will not be enough
reaction within the United States for
the incident to go by without further
investigation it is difficult to believe
that there are not many Americans
regardless of their political
affiliation their ideology who driven by
an elementary sense of property of
and prestige who will not demand that
all the facts are clarified and that all
these strange circumstances are
explained it will be very difficult and
only at an extraordinary cost of
prestige for the United States to cover
up for the individuals responsible for
the murder it will be very difficult to
keep hidden
all of the motives and the true purposes
as well as the intellectual authors the
organizers of this crime but they
themselves the same who forged this plan
against peace against Cuba against the
Soviet Union against humanity against
progressive and even liberal sectors of
the United States are to blame it is
unlikely that they will be able to keep
the secret and the mystery to the end
let us wait calmly but not with
confidence we are not confident because
we see what kind of dangers threaten
humanity what dangers threaten all
people we see the lack of scruples we
see what kind of evil and cynicism are
present in the imperialist society among
the most reactionary elements of that
society
how many dangers they caused how many
sinister plans that is why I say we
should wait calmly but not with
confidence because this is a lesson in
the meantime let's see how those who
organized the plot stew in their own
juice because now even Olympic shooting
champions are giving their opinion
anywhere in the world anyway our
motherland who was again threatened who
so again how the weapons of aggression
were pointed at her in an attempt to
throw at her and at her revolution a
storm of infamies she has witnessed once
again how it is evident how the behavior
of each one has been unveiled in this
test as in every test
she is submitted to our revolution will
be triumphant with more region with more
morals because in the eyes of the world
it is
we're and it will continue to be even
more so how does reactionaries in the
united states wanted to turn our country
and the world into victims of their
criminal plans even at the price of
murdering their own president all these
events resemble more and more an FBI
novel they look more an incident between
gangsters than a political act all the
circumstances including these scandals
way in which the term murders were
committed remind us of the gangster
movies we have watched so many times
filmed precisely in Hollywood and in
case one might miss all the similarities
the one in charge of lynching the first
suspect was nothing less than a gambler
from Chicago how will they explain all
those things to the world how will they
defend this kind of impudence to
humanity those who have acted with such
a lack of respect towards the worst
opinion those who have shown such a lack
of human sensitivity this concludes the
reference that we were obliged to make
in order to clarify aspects related to
the facts